Now that we have our app up on Heroku we don't want to show our logger messages.
When ever we fire redux action.
So how do we remove it specifically only in production because we still want our logger during development
well in order for us to do this.
We have to understand what the logger is and understand what the logger is requires us to understand
what Middleware is inside of redux.
So when we built our store we understood what our route reducer was.
And we also understand that when actions come through being dispatched by our action creators they hit
the reducer and update the reducer but along the way they also pass through any middleware that we apply
through this apply middleware call and all middleware are are essentially these functions that we can
write that catch actions and do something and then return the action so that it continues down and updates
are reduced as the way that we know that they do the logger for example is a middleware that catches
the action and then logs it to us as well as logging what the state was before the actions update the
reduced hours as well as what the state will be after they update the reducer.
And all we need to do to make sure that we only apply the logger when we're in development is we set
our middle whereas array to be empty.
And then we say if the process dot environment dot note environment is equal to development then we
will run middleware as Dot push our logger.
Now what is this process environment.
So inside of node there is a environment variable.
We can set environment variables or Heroku sets environment variables.
But luckily for us create react app actually sets an environment variable which can only be accessed
through this process.
Dot any call and there's node and being a property on as we can see the process is environment file
it's either going to be development production or test.
And this is useful because it allows us to know whether or not our app is being served in development
or in production.
And when we push to production when we called Yarn build it tells the thing that's serving are application
that it needs to switch this node environment variable over to production whereas normally when we just
run our yarn start and host it on our local server it sets this node environment variable over to development
and we can just check for it using process Dot and Dot note.
So what we're saying is that if the node environment is development then we want to push the logger
into our array if it is anything else like production or like test we don't want it.
So apply middleware we'll just call it with no middleware.
And with this code we can now see that on our local post we still have our middleware running our logger
is still working.
But if we go back to our application and we say get ad get commit dash M removing redux logger from
production build.
Now if we get push Heroku M. This will push our live changes to Heroku and we will see that the logger
will no longer fire.
So let's just wait again for our Heroku build to complete
it actually should be faster this time because we've cached our node modules from the first time it
built.
So if none of our node modules have updated then there's no reason it will rebuild our node modules.
OK.
Now if we go back to our application you know Heroku if we refresh we will see that the logger is no
longer firing.
And just like that our production application is pretty much finished so that was really easy.
And that's the beautiful thing about Heroku is that we can easily deploy our ReACT Web sites on Heroku
just by going through those quick simple steps that we went through to push this live.
Now the caveat with Heroku is that the free account is running on a shared what they call diagnose and
all that means is that we are only given a certain amount of time per month for free where we can build
these projects.
So whenever we push and you see us building this project we're using up that time.
Now I think Heroku gives us something like 500 minutes which is pretty good considering that we're not
going to be building that often per month.
But the other thing is that whenever you try to access the Web site.
So whenever somebody goes to the Web site it is usually in a sleeping state if the last time it was
accessed was greater than 30 minutes ago which you'll see symbolized by the z z z.
So when you access the Web site Heroku has to turn our website back on which might take a couple seconds.
But generally speaking I mean it's all for free.
So that's still pretty good for us.
And people generally understand that if you're hosting on a Heroku Web site it's not a big deal.
If you attach a credit card inside of your personal settings down here inside of account settings inside
of the billing if you attach your credit card you will get more hours which is good for us.
If you wanted more time and it's pretty easy.
They won't charge you unless it actually has to and you update your pricing plan.
So those are some of the caveats of using the free Heroku plant but it's so easy and it's so good to
use and it's so well-supported that there's no reason for us not to use it but now that we have our
Heroku serving up our live Web site we can move on to the next section of our course which is adding
in optimizations on our existing application.